Part A — Theory Questions

1. What is Responsive Web Design and why is it necessary?
Responsive Web Design (RWD) is a way of designing websites so they look good on all screen sizes like mobiles, tablets, and desktops. It became necessary because people use many different devices to access websites.

2. Explain the viewport meta tag and each part.
The viewport meta tag tells the browser how to display a webpage on different devices.
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
width=device-width – Sets the page width to match the device screen.
initial-scale=1.0 – Sets the initial zoom level to 100%.

3. Compare px, rem, vw, and vmin.
px – Fixed size. Best for borders or icons.
rem – Relative to the root font size. Best for fonts and spacing.
vw – Relative to the viewport width. Good for responsive text or widths.
vmin – Uses the smaller of viewport width or height. Useful for responsive elements.

4. What are media queries? Difference between min-width and max-width?
Media queries apply different CSS styles based on screen size.
min-width – Styles apply when the screen is at least the given width.
max-width – Styles apply when the screen is at most the given width.

5. What is Mobile-First Design? Why is it the industry standard?
Mobile-first design means designing for mobile screens first, then adding styles for larger screens. It is the industry standard because most users browse websites on mobile devices.

6. Difference between Flexbox and CSS Grid.
Flexbox is for one-dimensional layouts (row or column).
CSS Grid is for two-dimensional layouts (rows and columns).
Use Flexbox for navigation bars and small layouts. Use Grid for complete page layouts.

7. Explain the main axis and cross axis in Flexbox.
Main axis is the direction in which flex items are arranged.
Cross axis is perpendicular to the main axis.
For flex-direction: row, the main axis is horizontal and the cross axis is vertical.

8. Explain the fr unit and repeat(auto-fit, minmax()).
fr means "fraction" of available space.
repeat(auto-fit, minmax(250px, 1fr)) automatically creates responsive columns that are at least 250px wide and grow equally to fill the available space.

9. What is grid-template-areas? Why is it useful?
grid-template-areas lets you name sections of a grid like header, sidebar, and footer. It makes the layout easier to read, manage, and modify.

10. Five common responsive design mistakes and how to avoid them.
Using fixed widths → Use flexible units like %, rem, or fr.
Forgetting the viewport meta tag → Always include it.
Not testing on mobile → Test on different screen sizes.
Images overflowing → Use max-width: 100%.
Ignoring media queries → Add responsive breakpoints for different devices.
